---
layout: post
title:      "Covid-19, Software Engineering, and Automation"
date:       2020-04-22 03:20:26 +0000
permalink:  covid-19_software_engineering_and_automation
---


Let’s talk a little about the Covid-19 virus and the subsequent quarantine as it relates to Software Engineering. For the most part, the quarantine has been a mixture of boredom, stress, anxiety, and frustration for quite a few people; however, the quarantine theoretically has provided a few positive changes within our lives. One change which has occurred involves our perception of importance as it relates to what matters most to us. The virus has given us the time to think and reflect upon what we want from the future. And yes, some of our goals have possibly changed as a result of the virus. Some students might foresee a career change as they either seek a virus proof career while others might see the virus as inspiration to help develop a cure or a fix to any of the associated problems. Even as a software engineering student, I find myself conceptualizing of possible ways software engineering might be able to prevent future outbreaks by tracking them more sufficiently. 

I even foresee software engineering as a mechanism for other careers affected by the virus, primarily those careers deemed essential. Imagine if the virus were Ebola, or something more deadly, and imagine the impact that would have on essential workers. They would be prettified to go into work but they would still need to attend as if they don’t, a vital service for the community would be left behind. What if all grocery store employees were suddenly ill and there was nobody to stock the shelves? That is where the future of software engineering comes into play, alongside automation. 

Most people fear automation as it threatens their job. If a robot can do their job better than they can then they would have no means to support their family. However, automation is nothing to fear. Tasks have been automated throughout the ages as they become obsolete, but humans adapt, they evolve. For example, we don’t have switchboard operators anymore because technology has made them obsolete. In fact, automation has the ability to make all ‘undesirable’ jobs obsolete. I use quotations on the word ‘undesirable’ as it is subjective, but that’s aside the point. In the future, the concept of a cashier very well could be outdated as technology, likely, will eliminate the need for a human. And in a pandemic, eliminating the human factor, very well could save lives. 

Before we talk about the joblessness situation automation would cause, let’s think about the potentially positive role automation would have on our future lives. Imagine if you woke up tomorrow and a scientist has developed, with automation, a device capable of providing the world with an infinite amount of power. And let’s say that scientist also decided to provide the service at no charge as it cost the scientist nothing to produce, due to automation. What would that do to our society? At first glance it would destroy all current, polluting, sources of energy, but it would also take away a substantial amount of jobs for engineers and energy sector workers, thus tanking the economy. But then let’s say the economy stabilizes and the displaced workers find other jobs. Sounds not too bad as nobody needs to pay their electric bill anymore. And now imagine if more scientists develop more technology in a similar manner, to the point of our basic needs being met through automated technology. We remove the human element from most essential tasks but technology there for us in the event of any apocalyptic scenario, including pandemics and social unrest. 

This is what the future could hold, but let’s take it one more step. If we have all our basic needs met, via automated technology, will you still willingly work a job you no longer enjoy? Of course not, you won’t need to. You will be free to explore other interests and curiosities. You will be able to write that screenplay, learn to play guitar, build that website, and make the art. But you also will be free to fix that problem and save those lives as you no longer would need to worry about working in order to survive. You would be working in order to intellectually thrive. So let’s not fear automation, let’s let it help us be free. 

