---
layout: post
title:      "Rails and the Future of Software Engineering"
date:       2020-05-10 23:56:44 -0400
permalink:  rails_and_the_future_of_software_engineering
---


What are some of the struggles of software engineering? 

This week has been our rails project week and I definitely have learned quite a bit. However, I found myself struggling on the simplest things, which subsequently caused me to fall behind a little bit. I literally wasted two days trying to figure out why I was unable to add something to one of my database tables. I modified everything I could think of but I still kept getting the same error regarding my strong params, indicating they are unfamiliar with the method “.permit”. The error made absolutely no sense to me. I went for a walk and rationally wrote everything out. And I might have turned into the creepy guy who roams around the park verbally mumbling about code. Upon arriving home, I broke down the code one param at a time and isolated the param to one malfunctioning param. I investigated and discovered I accidently pluralized one of my database table columns. That one ‘s’ caused so much frustration. 

I thought for certain my database would not have been the culprit as I used a generator to set it up. I used ‘rails g model’ to create the model and the migration. So I ran ‘rails db:rollback’ to rollback the schema and I removed that pesky ‘s’. I migrated one again and what do you know, everything finally worked.

 But mistakes happen, it’s what makes us human. The rails generator is by no means human, it is merely an autonomous code capable of only doing what it is programmed to do. Only the programmer and tell the generator what to do and it will do what you say, unless it triggers a build in error. And so, for the rest of the project I had automation in mind as I could not help but to think about cold, blunt, inhospitable code. A code is merely a puzzle waiting to be solved. Which brings me to my number one struggle of the week... SLEEP. 

I rarely have issues sleeping but this week has certainly been a struggle. There are various reasons for this but the number one reason managed to be the fact that I found myself dreaming in code. This is nothing new, I occasionally dream about trying to figure out some puzzling code, as I’m sure many other people who work with code occasionally do; however, even in your dreams, a broken code can be extremely frustrating. Something similar happens when I screen write and I dream in lines of dialog.  Anyways, I kept dreaming about the various ways to fix the code I had already fixed. I would wake up in the middle of the night where I would need to remind myself that the code had already been completed. I would need to distract myself from coding in order to properly fall to sleep. This coding induced insomnia is perhaps the most treacherous aspect of software engineering. Although, I do find myself finding solutions to coding problems in my sleep occasionally. I’d be dreaming about a code and the solution just emerges causing me to wake up in the middle of the night to write it down. But then the next morning it makes absolutely no sense. 

And so, I have been pondering this concept of dreams lately, especially alongside the ruby object metaphor for life. In the future, will it ever be possible to create a dream object? Dreams are so fascinating, frustrating, frightful, and even pleasurable. Any yet we rarely remember them. Many programmers are trying to mimic human behavior in machines, primarily in the use of machine learning along with the Siri’s and Cortana’s of the world. It’s always a challenge and a struggle to figure out how to mimic humans but we are doing so one line of code at a time. In the future it very well might be possible to create a virtual human being; however, would that virtual human dream? Would it need to dream? It’s difficult to say why humans dream but some researchers believe dreams to be a manifestation of our memories as they relate to either obtaining pleasure or avoiding pain. Our ancestors would have relied on dreams, primarily nightmares, to keep them alert to the dangers they face on a daily basis. 
So is a coding nightmare our brains way of keeping us alert to the things we deem important. Our ancestors found survival to be important but most of us live comfortably away from predators today. Perhaps, programmers who dream in code, find fixing broken code to be the most important things in their lives at the moment. It’s hard to say. Or perhaps our brains are trying to alert us to the dangers of programming and coding. It’s trying to keep us from creating the HAL 3000’s of the world which would find human error as a virus needing to be removed. We may never know. Happy Coding!

